.. title: My Journal
.. slug: my-journal
.. date: 2024-04-19 19:18:32 UTC-05:00
.. tags: 
.. category: 
.. link: 
.. description: This page contains my journal entries for the week during the experiment. Mostly, they're just my personal thoughts about the whole experience. I hope they provide some useful insights into how I felt during the experience!
.. type: text

4/7/2024::
	Today’s been pretty okay overall. Not being allowed to use my phone has made it a little more boring, but really the main thing that’s changed is that I’ve been on my laptop a lot more. Weirdly, reducing my phone use so far has actually discouraged me from leaving my dorm more than anything else. Usually I can just pause the stuff I’m doing on my laptop and use my phone to continue on the go, but now that I can’t do that I’m incentivised to just… stay inside at my laptop. Which isn’t exactly great, but to be honest Sunday’s are always my least favorite day of the week so I can only see it going up from here. I’m a bit worried about getting bored waiting for classes to start and stuff, but I guess this gives me a reason to actually get my work done so that's nice. 

4/8/2024::
	Not using my phone and listening to music and videos feels pretty isolating. Restricting my phone use has made a positive impact on my focus in lectures, which is great, but outside of that I actually feel like things are going worse than usual. The fact that I can’t use my phone between classes as a break means that I am having trouble actually focusing on doing my work. Normally my day feels like it's divided up into sections of working and relaxing on my phone, now it feels like sections of work are divided up by silence. Silent contemplation isn’t exactly difficult, but without being able to actually fully relax between classes my day has felt like a constant stream of halfhearted work. And while I guess not staring at a screen or having my earbuds in means I’m more in tune with my surroundings, I honestly feel lonelier now than I did before. But that could also just be stress starting to creep in more and more as the semester goes on. I don’t know, hopefully things get better. 

4/9/2024::
	Feeling quite a bit better today. Got a much better night's sleep so that's probably part of it. Part of that nice sleep was sleeping past a class though so that sucked. Long stretches of time today between classes, in fact I only have two classes on Tuesdays. Could have potentially been pretty boring but I made up for the lack of phone usage by just sitting down and using my laptop instead. I feel like that's potentially a bit against the spirit of the experiment, but what's definitely against the spirit of the experiment was using my phone to listen to relaxing youtube videos to help me sleep last night. Oh well. My phone usage is still down by over 50%, so I consider that a large enough lifestyle change. For the record, that means my phone usage has gone down from a daily average of 15 hours to just around 6-7. Not bad, but I can’t exactly say that reduction has exactly done much obvious good for me yet. Whatever, let's just hope this good mood continues!

4/10/2024::
	Same as usual mostly. Used my phone a bit more than I should have but not to any insane degree. Mostly used my laptop like before, though it ran out of battery half way through the day. After classes ended I just went back to my dorm to charge it up, before leaving for a test I had at 6. I had a lot I needed to do today, so I spent little time waiting and most of my time doing stuff that wouldn’t have needed my phone anyways. Still feels weird to eat without listening to something though. Using a device while I eat has been a habit of mine pretty much my whole life, so it feels wrong eating without one. Plus, while I am very good at occupying myself with my thoughts while walking, I do kinda miss listening to music. But also kinda not? I think I’ll probably mix in some walking without music to spice things up once and a while. In summary: I don’t think I’m close to achieving nirvana yet, but doing stuff without my phone isn’t the worst. We’ll just have to see how things progress from here I guess. 

4/11/2024::
    Okay so I am literally writing this on my phone in bed because I forgot to do it on my laptop and I don’t feel like getting out of bed. HOWEVER, today was, like, okay. Better than yesterday in terms of phone usage, at least. I’ve been having a hard time getting work done not gonna lie, maybe now that my computer is my main source of entertainment it’s harder to focus on work while using it. I dunno. Things have been mostly the same though, not really enjoying it but it’s not terrible or anything. Though struggling to focus on work really does a number on my self esteem. At least my hair felt nice today after drying for 2 hours. That was, and is, a good moral boost. Okay I’m tired and typing on my phone sucks so GOODNIGHT. 

4/12/2024::
	It is very, very late. “Today” (technically yesterday at time of writing) was fine, nothing really out of the ordinary. It was another day where I did a lot of stuff that didn’t need my phone in the first place so it didn’t really end up mattering too much. I also think I’m getting better at using my phone strategically to pad out the day without using it too much. Idk, I am kind of running out of ways to say things are going fine enough. I guess I just technically did, didn’t I? On a more serious note, I am definitely excited to be done with this experiment. I don’t think it was quite as bad as I expected, though in fairness I have consistently failed to reach my sub-hour goal. Even with all that in mind, I miss listening to music and being able to relax between classes and stuff. I guess this has opened my mind about just how much I use my phone, but I do kinda fail to see exactly how my, frankly obscene, phone time usage is actually negatively affecting my life. This week was probably worse than the last one, and I DO think that's in part because it was harder to destress without my phone. Especially in a time filled with so much stress, a stupid entertainment brick can really give you something to focus on and enjoy as long as you use it intelligently. Like obviously using my phone during lectures is bad, and not using my phone has helped me focus on lectures. But I knew that even before this experiment, soooooo yeah. Like I am definitely used to my phone being used a reduced amount, and I guess it's nice to feel like, morally superior? Because society would have considered me phone addicted before and this would be like a step towards recovery or whatever. But besides kinda feeling awkward listening to videos and stuff in public and feeling like people are judging me for it, I don’t think this has actually meaningfully improved my life in any way. And that previous example wasn’t a way my phone was negatively affecting my life, it was a way in which people being judgemental (or my own anxieties I guess) affected me. Sometimes I do use my phone in ways that harm me, yes. I would never deny that. And it's true that this experiment has opened up my eyes to how truly incredibly large my phone usage was previously. But I’ve failed to prove that this large screen time usage is actually harmful to me, which means the big scary number doesn’t really prove anything. This is by far the largest journal entry, sorry for going on such a crazy rant. It's 4am and I need to sleep. I suspect the next journal entry will be much shorter, and I am looking forward to my victory lap. And also DND with my friends tomorrow, that's exciting. :)

4/14/2024:: 
	I totally forgot to write an entry yesterday, so that's my bad. Now that it's my first day with my phone usage unconstrained again, I suppose that's a bit more interesting than going over the same exact points I usually do once again. Still, I don’t have much more to say really, I did most of that on friday. It’s been nice to go back to normal phone usage though! Actually being able to listen to videos on the go gives me a lot more flexibility and I really appreciate that. I suppose thats pretty much it though, I’m just going back to normal. 
